Now that we've seen how the CNN model works we can go ahead and finish up the original case study of
sentiment analysis that we started in the very first with you of this course you would recall that we
left out the model portion and said that after the embedding we had some layers which we would discuss
later.
And this is one that later has come.
So immediately after our embedding there we add a dropout layer and that is going to do some regularization
for us and ensure that learning is not just rote memorization.
Then we have a on one Delia.
So instead of having to delay it we have gone one Delia because we have a one dimensional structure
here.
So the difference between a dual convolution and one convolution is as the name implies that in one
day convolution the filter is not going to be a matrix.
It's going to be a vector so instead of a 2D matrix we're going to have a one deflected and it's going
to slide over the whole Bundy structure of the input that we give to it.
So that's essentially one convolution.
So we have a one evolution over here with decoded size filters and all the other things set over here
according to the variables that we set in the top set about here.
Right.
So we have 250 filters and the of size of three and everything else is as it should be.
After that we have a max pooling which is over the whole structure.
So it's a global Max pooling instead of just a local pooling.
Then we have a vanilla hidden layer dense layer.
So in dimensions with the drop out and the activation of a loop then we add in a dense layer with just
one node.
So it's going to be predicting a value between 0 and 1 and it's going to have an activation of sigmoid.
Finally we go ahead and compile the model using binary across entropy and the atom optimize it.
We can change this obviously to other optimizer.
And finally we go ahead and do the fitting using the training data and do the evaluation is well that
is essentially all we've done so in embedding lower dropout cone Vandy with an optional rowboat than
pulling then one dense layer with drop out and another dense data with the activation of sigmoid.
So by now you should be able to understand how the model has been structured and the really good thing
about this architecture is we have the brains of the whole machine separated from everything as so in
this pipeline.
This is what the brain of the machine is and we can go ahead and change this to another architecture
and we'll get much better performance.
So you would recall that over here we had an error because this guy was incorrectly labeled as a positive
sentiment even though it's clearly negative for us humans.
We can see that it's negative but the machine thought it was positive.
So we can go ahead and look up another model which works really well for sentiment analysis which is
based on the concept of recurrent neural networks.
Now there is a lot of theory involved with recurrent neural networks.
We don't want to go into the details of the actual beauty.
For that I'm going to refer you to this excellent article by Andre.
He's a Stanford professor.
The article is the unreasonable effectiveness of neural networks.
So essentially what has he got a neural network is is that it's an architecture of neural networks which
instead of just taking the input and producing the output it can take in an input and keep track of
each state over a period of time so you can think of these blocks as different timestamps as you keep
inserting data into this model.
It keeps learning according to the different sequence of information that you give it.
That gives a lot of strength to the architecture so you can have a neural net exports sentiment analysis
specifically LSD aims are really good and the way we do that is simply go ahead and change our model
to an LSD model.
This is 0 7 get us examples begin.
And this is essentially the same notebook that we did earlier.
So all of the things are exactly the same except for the model that we have here.
So this model has been changed and it has been changed to golf instead of from corn Bundy to LSD.
So we have the embedding and then instead of the con wouldn't you have Elysium.
And then you have dense and essentially everything else is the same.
But what this does is it's going to give us more board for the type of sentiment analysis that we can
do.
So just by joining these couple of lines we can have a model that does better in terms of the actual
predictions.
So this would have taken a lot of time so I've executed this beforehand and essentially it's the same
idea the whole code is exactly the same.
And we have these four guys over here.
The fourth one was incorrectly labeled previously but now as you can see that this model has correctly
labeled it as negative.
So negative positive negative and negative and the only other change that we made was instead of zero
point five we have zero point nine six or what he has to change the threshold just a little bit.
But you can see that we are getting much better results even with the small number of examples that
we have here.
And that's the ball of this architecture.
Now you can go ahead and change the brains of the machine and incorporate much more powerful models
to have a better sentiment analysis engine by changing just a couple of lines you can go ahead and experiment
with other models as well.
I'll give you a hint of how to do that.
So if you go to any search engine and search for examples GitHub you will get this link all ahead.
And when you click on that you have all of these examples forgets that you've been following all the
sentiment analysis examples are in this I'm DV underscored.
So we have bi directional A.T.M..
We have CNN which we've done.
We have CNN LACMA which joins CNN with Elysium.
We have foster X and Atlas team that we just did.
So you can open up any of these and you would see that it has essentially the same code and all you
need is to take this model Woodhead and inserted into your own pipeline that we've covered.
So once you have this architecture you can go ahead and experiment with different losses.
You can try different optimizes you can change a lot of the different parameters and see what works
for your dataset and your problem domain that you're trying to solve.